docs/quickstart.md, before:

# IPC Quick Start: zero-to-subnet

>💡 Background and detailed are available in the [README](/README.md).

Ready to test the waters with your first subnet? This guide will deploy a subnet with multiple local validators orchestrated by the same IPC agent. This subnet will be anchored to the public Spacenet. This will be a minimal example and may not work on all systems. The full documentation provides more details on each step.

Several steps in this guide involve running long-lived processes. In each of these cases, the guide advises starting a new *session*. Depending on your set-up, you may do this using tools like `screen` or `tmux`, or, if using a graphical environment, by opening a new terminal tab, pane, or window.

>💡A video walkthrough of this guide is also [available](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J9Y4_bzGue4). We still encourage you to try it for yourself!

## Step 0: Prepare your system

We assume a Ubuntu Linux instance when discussing prerequisites, but annotate steps with system-specificity and links to detailed multi-OS instructions. Exact procedures will vary for other systems, so please follow the links if running something different. Details on IPC-specific requirements can also be found in the [README](/README.md).

* Install basic dependencies [Ubuntu/Debian] ([details](https://lotus.filecoin.io/lotus/install/prerequisites/#supported-platforms))
```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install build-essential libssl-dev mesa-opencl-icd ocl-icd-opencl-dev gcc git bzr jq pkg-config curl clang hwloc libhwloc-dev wget ca-certificates gnupg -y 
```

* Install Rust [Linux] ([details](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install))
```bash
curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown
```

* Install Go [Linux] ([details](https://go.dev/doc/install))
```bash
curl -fsSL https://golang.org/dl/go1.19.7.linux-amd64.tar.gz | sudo tar -xz -C /usr/local
echo 'export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin' >> ~/.bashrc && source ~/.bashrc
```

* Install Docker Engine [Ubuntu] ([details](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/))
```bash
sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg
sudo chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg
echo \
  "deb [arch="$(dpkg --print-architecture)" signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
  "$(. /etc/os-release && echo "$VERSION_CODENAME")" stable" | \
  sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin -y
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER && newgrp docker
```


## Step 1: Build the IPC stack

Next, we'll download and build the different components (IPC agent, docker images, and eudico).

* Pick a folder where to build the IPC stack. In this example, we'll go with `~/ipc/`.
```bash
mkdir -p ~/ipc/ && cd ~/ipc/ 
```
* Download and compile the IPC Agent (might take a while)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/ipc-agent.git
(cd ipc-agent && make build && make install-infra)
```
* Download and compile eudico (might take a while)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/lotus.git
(cd lotus && make spacenet)
```


## Step 2: Deploy a Spacenet node

Let's deploy a eudico instance on Spacenet and configure the IPC Agent to interact with it.

* [**In a new session**] Start your eudico instance (might take a while to sync the chain)
```bash
./lotus/eudico mir daemon --bootstrap
```
* Get configuration parameters
```bash
./lotus/eudico auth create-token --perm admin
```
* Configure your IPC Agent
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent config init
nano ~/.ipc-agent/config.toml
```
* Replace the content of `config.toml` with the text below, substituting the token retrieved above.
```toml
[server]
json_rpc_address = "0.0.0.0:3030"

[[subnets]]
id = "/root"
gateway_addr = "t064"
network_name = "root"
jsonrpc_api_http = "http://127.0.0.1:1234/rpc/v1"
auth_token = "<AUTH_TOKEN_0>"
accounts = []
```
* [**In a new session**] Start your IPC Agent
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent daemon
```

* Create a new wallet in your agent
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet new --key-type=secp256k1
```

* Add your new wallet address in the accounts field of your config:
```toml
...
accounts = ["<WALLET_0>"]
...
```
* And reload your config:
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent config reload
```


## Step 3: Fund your account

* Obtain some Spacenet FIL by requesting it from the [faucet](https://faucet.spacenet.ipc.space/), using your wallet address. 


## Step 4: Create the subnet

* The next step is to create a subnet under `/root`
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet create --parent /root --name andromeda --min-validator-stake 1 --min-validators 2 --bottomup-check-period 30 --topdown-check-period 30
```
* Make a note of the address of the subnet you created (`/root/<SUBNET_ID>`)


## Step 5: Create and export validator wallets

Although we set a minimum of 2 active validators in the previous, we'll deploy 3 validators to add some redundancy. 

* First, we'll need to create a wallet for each validator
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet new --key-type secp256k1
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet new --key-type secp256k1
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet new --key-type secp256k1
```
* Export each wallet (WALLET_1, WALLET_2, and WALLET_3) by substituting their addresses below
```bash
./lotus/eudico wallet export --lotus-json <WALLET_1> > ~/.ipc-agent/wallet1.key
./lotus/eudico wallet export --lotus-json <WALLET_2> > ~/.ipc-agent/wallet2.key
./lotus/eudico wallet export --lotus-json <WALLET_3> > ~/.ipc-agent/wallet3.key
```
* We also need to fund the wallets with enough collateral to; we'll send the funds from our default wallet 
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet send-value --subnet /root --to <WALLET_1> 2
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet send-value --subnet /root --to <WALLET_2> 2
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet send-value --subnet /root --to <WALLET_3> 2
```


## Step 6: Deploy the infrastructure

We can deploy the subnet nodes. Note that each node should be importing a different wallet key for their validator, and should be exposing different ports. If these ports are unavailable in your system, please pick different ones.

* Deploy and run a container for each validator, importing the corresponding wallet keys
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/run-subnet-docker.sh 1251 1351 /root/<SUBNET_ID> ~/.ipc-agent/wallet1.key
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/run-subnet-docker.sh 1252 1352 /root/<SUBNET_ID> ~/.ipc-agent/wallet2.key
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/run-subnet-docker.sh 1253 1353 /root/<SUBNET_ID> ~/.ipc-agent/wallet3.key
```
* If the deployment is successful, each of these nodes should return the following output at the end of their logs. Save the information for the next step.
```
>>> Subnet /root/<SUBNET_ID> daemon running in container: <CONTAINER_ID_#> (friendly name: <CONTAINER_NAME_#>)
>>> Token to /root/<SUBNET_ID> daemon: <AUTH_TOKEN_#>
>>> Default wallet: <WALLET_#>
>>> Subnet subnet validator info:
<VALIDATOR_ADDR_#>
>>> API listening in host port <PORT_#>
>>> Validator listening in host port <VALIDATOR_PORT_#>
```


## Step 7: Configure the IPC agent

For ease of use, we'll import the remaining keys into the first validator, via which the IPC Agent will act on behalf of all.

* Copy the wallet keys into the docker container and import them
```bash
docker cp ~/.ipc-agent/wallet2.key <CONTAINER_NAME_1>:/input.key && docker exec -it <CONTAINER_NAME_1> eudico wallet import --format=json-lotus input.key
docker cp ~/.ipc-agent/wallet3.key <CONTAINER_NAME_1>:/input.key && docker exec -it <CONTAINER_NAME_1> eudico wallet import --format=json-lotus input.key
```
* Edit the IPC agent configuration `config.toml`
```bash
nano ~/.ipc-agent/config.toml
```
* Append the new subnet to the configuration
```toml
[[subnets]]
id = "/root/<SUBNET_ID>"
gateway_addr = "t064"
network_name = "andromeda"
jsonrpc_api_http = "http://127.0.0.1:1251/rpc/v1"
auth_token = "<AUTH_TOKEN_1>"
accounts = ["<WALLET_1>", "<WALLET_2>", "<WALLET_3>"]
```
* Reload the config
```bash 
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent config reload
```


## Step 8: Join the subnet 

All the infrastructure for the subnet is now deployed, and we can join our validators to the subnet. For this, we need to send a `join` command from each of our validators from their validator wallet addresses providing the validators multiaddress. 

* Join the subnet with each validator
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet join --from <WALLET_1> --subnet /root/<SUBNET_ID> --collateral 1 --validator-net-addr <VALIDATOR_ADDR_1>
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet join --from <WALLET_2> --subnet /root/<SUBNET_ID> --collateral 1 --validator-net-addr <VALIDATOR_ADDR_2>
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet join --from <WALLET_3> --subnet /root/<SUBNET_ID> --collateral 1 --validator-net-addr <VALIDATOR_ADDR_3>
```


## Step 9: Start validating! 

We have everything in place now to start validating. Run the following script for each of the validators [**each in a new session**], passing the container names:
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/mine-subnet.sh <CONTAINER_NAME_1> 
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/mine-subnet.sh <CONTAINER_NAME_2> 
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/mine-subnet.sh <CONTAINER_NAME_3> 
```


## Step 10: What now?

* Check that the subnet is running
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet list --gateway-address t064 --subnet /root
```
* If something went wrong, please have a look at the [README](https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/ipc-agent). If it doesn't help, please join us in #ipc-help. In either case, let us know your experience!
* Please note that to repeat this guide or spawn a new subnet, you may need to change the parameters or reset your system.

Commit message:

wrap up docs and fix export key format

docs/quickstart.md, after:

# IPC Quick Start: zero-to-subnet

>💡 Background and detailed are available in the [README](/README.md).

Ready to test the waters with your first subnet? This guide will deploy a subnet with multiple local validators orchestrated by the same IPC agent. This subnet will be anchored to the public Spacenet. This will be a minimal example and may not work on all systems. The full documentation provides more details on each step.

Several steps in this guide involve running long-lived processes. In each of these cases, the guide advises starting a new *session*. Depending on your set-up, you may do this using tools like `screen` or `tmux`, or, if using a graphical environment, by opening a new terminal tab, pane, or window.

>💡A video walkthrough of this guide is also [available](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J9Y4_bzGue4). We still encourage you to try it for yourself!

## Step 0: Prepare your system

We assume a Ubuntu Linux instance when discussing prerequisites, but annotate steps with system-specificity and links to detailed multi-OS instructions. Exact procedures will vary for other systems, so please follow the links if running something different. Details on IPC-specific requirements can also be found in the [README](/README.md).

* Install basic dependencies [Ubuntu/Debian] ([details](https://lotus.filecoin.io/lotus/install/prerequisites/#supported-platforms))
```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install build-essential libssl-dev mesa-opencl-icd ocl-icd-opencl-dev gcc git bzr jq pkg-config curl clang hwloc libhwloc-dev wget ca-certificates gnupg -y 
```

* Install Rust [Linux] ([details](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install))
```bash
curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown
```

* Install Go [Linux] ([details](https://go.dev/doc/install))
```bash
curl -fsSL https://golang.org/dl/go1.19.7.linux-amd64.tar.gz | sudo tar -xz -C /usr/local
echo 'export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin' >> ~/.bashrc && source ~/.bashrc
```

* Install Docker Engine [Ubuntu] ([details](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/))
```bash
sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg
sudo chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg
echo \
  "deb [arch="$(dpkg --print-architecture)" signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
  "$(. /etc/os-release && echo "$VERSION_CODENAME")" stable" | \
  sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin -y
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER && newgrp docker
```


## Step 1: Build the IPC stack

Next, we'll download and build the different components (IPC agent, docker images, and eudico).

* Pick a folder where to build the IPC stack. In this example, we'll go with `~/ipc/`.
```bash
mkdir -p ~/ipc/ && cd ~/ipc/ 
```
* Download and compile the IPC Agent (might take a while)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/ipc-agent.git
(cd ipc-agent && make build && make install-infra)
```
* Download and compile eudico (might take a while)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/lotus.git
(cd lotus && make spacenet)
```


## Step 2: Deploy a Spacenet node

Let's deploy a eudico instance on Spacenet and configure the IPC Agent to interact with it.

* [**In a new session**] Start your eudico instance (might take a while to sync the chain)
```bash
./lotus/eudico mir daemon --bootstrap
```
* Get configuration parameters
```bash
./lotus/eudico auth create-token --perm admin
```
* Configure your IPC Agent
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent config init
nano ~/.ipc-agent/config.toml
```
* Replace the content of `config.toml` with the text below, substituting the token retrieved above.
```toml
[server]
json_rpc_address = "0.0.0.0:3030"

[[subnets]]
id = "/root"
gateway_addr = "t064"
network_name = "root"
jsonrpc_api_http = "http://127.0.0.1:1234/rpc/v1"
auth_token = "<AUTH_TOKEN_0>"
accounts = []
```
* [**In a new session**] Start your IPC Agent
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent daemon
```

* Create a new wallet in your agent
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet new --key-type=secp256k1
```

* Add your new wallet address in the accounts field of your config:
```toml
...
accounts = ["<WALLET_0>"]
...
```
* And reload your config:
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent config reload
```


## Step 3: Fund your account

* Obtain some Spacenet FIL by requesting it from the [faucet](https://faucet.spacenet.ipc.space/), using your wallet address. 


## Step 4: Create the subnet

* The next step is to create a subnet under `/root`
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet create --parent /root --name andromeda --min-validator-stake 1 --min-validators 2 --bottomup-check-period 30 --topdown-check-period 30
```
* Make a note of the address of the subnet you created (`/root/<SUBNET_ID>`)


## Step 5: Create and export validator wallets

Although we set a minimum of 2 active validators in the previous, we'll deploy 3 validators to add some redundancy. 

* First, we'll need to create a wallet for each validator
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet new --key-type secp256k1
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet new --key-type secp256k1
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet new --key-type secp256k1
```
* Export each wallet (WALLET_1, WALLET_2, and WALLET_3) by substituting their addresses below
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet export --address=<WALLET_1> --output=~/.ipc-agent/wallet1.key
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet export --address=<WALLET_2> --output=~/.ipc-agent/wallet2.key
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet export --address=<WALLET_3> --output=~/.ipc-agent/wallet3.key
```
* We also need to fund the wallets with enough collateral to; we'll send the funds from our default wallet 
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet send-value --subnet /root --to <WALLET_1> 2
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet send-value --subnet /root --to <WALLET_2> 2
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet send-value --subnet /root --to <WALLET_3> 2
```


## Step 6: Deploy the infrastructure

We can deploy the subnet nodes. Note that each node should be importing a different wallet key for their validator, and should be exposing different ports. If these ports are unavailable in your system, please pick different ones.

* Deploy and run a container for each validator, importing the corresponding wallet keys
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/run-subnet-docker.sh 1251 1351 /root/<SUBNET_ID> ~/.ipc-agent/wallet1.key
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/run-subnet-docker.sh 1252 1352 /root/<SUBNET_ID> ~/.ipc-agent/wallet2.key
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/run-subnet-docker.sh 1253 1353 /root/<SUBNET_ID> ~/.ipc-agent/wallet3.key
```
* If the deployment is successful, each of these nodes should return the following output at the end of their logs. Save the information for the next step.
```
>>> Subnet /root/<SUBNET_ID> daemon running in container: <CONTAINER_ID_#> (friendly name: <CONTAINER_NAME_#>)
>>> Token to /root/<SUBNET_ID> daemon: <AUTH_TOKEN_#>
>>> Default wallet: <WALLET_#>
>>> Subnet subnet validator info:
<VALIDATOR_ADDR_#>
>>> API listening in host port <PORT_#>
>>> Validator listening in host port <VALIDATOR_PORT_#>
```


## Step 7: Configure the IPC agent

For ease of use, we'll import the remaining keys into the first validator, via which the IPC Agent will act on behalf of all. All the keys should already be imported in the wallet of the agent, if for some reason this is not the case you can import it through: `./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent wallet import --path=~/.ipc-agent/wallet.key`
```
* Edit the IPC agent configuration `config.toml`
```bash
nano ~/.ipc-agent/config.toml
```
* Append the new subnet to the configuration
```toml
[[subnets]]
id = "/root/<SUBNET_ID>"
gateway_addr = "t064"
network_name = "andromeda"
jsonrpc_api_http = "http://127.0.0.1:1251/rpc/v1"
auth_token = "<AUTH_TOKEN_1>"
accounts = ["<WALLET_1>", "<WALLET_2>", "<WALLET_3>"]
```
* Reload the config
```bash 
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent config reload
```


## Step 8: Join the subnet 

All the infrastructure for the subnet is now deployed, and we can join our validators to the subnet. For this, we need to send a `join` command from each of our validators from their validator wallet addresses providing the validators multiaddress. 

* Join the subnet with each validator
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet join --from <WALLET_1> --subnet /root/<SUBNET_ID> --collateral 1 --validator-net-addr <VALIDATOR_ADDR_1>
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet join --from <WALLET_2> --subnet /root/<SUBNET_ID> --collateral 1 --validator-net-addr <VALIDATOR_ADDR_2>
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet join --from <WALLET_3> --subnet /root/<SUBNET_ID> --collateral 1 --validator-net-addr <VALIDATOR_ADDR_3>
```


## Step 9: Start validating! 

We have everything in place now to start validating. Run the following script for each of the validators [**each in a new session**], passing the container names:
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/mine-subnet.sh <CONTAINER_NAME_1> 
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/mine-subnet.sh <CONTAINER_NAME_2> 
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-infra/mine-subnet.sh <CONTAINER_NAME_3> 
```


## Step 10: What now?

* Check that the subnet is running
```bash
./ipc-agent/bin/ipc-agent subnet list --gateway-address t064 --subnet /root
```
* If something went wrong, please have a look at the [README](https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/ipc-agent). If it doesn't help, please join us in #ipc-help. In either case, let us know your experience!
* Please note that to repeat this guide or spawn a new subnet, you may need to change the parameters or reset your system.
